It's time for our first aside.
Throughout this course,
we'll have lectures that are asides.
That means that we're going
to cover something just
off to the side of what we
were talking about directly.
But very very important to
understand whatever technique or
aspect or concept of JavaScript
that we're about to cover.
Now, each aside might
have a particular type.
In this case,
we're going to do a Conceptual Aside.
A conceptual aside means we'll
focus on a concept or an idea
that's fundamental to the rest of
the course of understanding and building
slowly our knowledge of JavaScript,
which is what we're going to do.
This conceptual aside
will cover three ideas,
syntax parsers, execution contexts,
and lexical environments.
These are fundamental concepts,
fundamental ideas to understanding the
rest of what we're going to talk about.
And you're going to see these
ideas come up again and
again throughout the rest of this course.
Now all three of these
are complicated sounding terms that
actually aren't that
difficult to understand.
So we're gonna give you your first
three big word alerts in a row.
All right, so here's our first one.
Big word alert.
Syntax parser.
Break glass.
A program that reads your code and
determines what it does and
if its grammar or syntax is valid.
So, when you write JavaScript
it isn't magically,
directly telling the computer what to do.
You're abstracted away from all of that,
you're writing code but
then someone else or
other people built programs
that convert your JavaScript into
something the computer can understand.
Those programs are called compilers and
at times,
they also have to do with interpreters.
But those programs, interpreters,
and compilers do the process,
the work of actually reading your
code character by character.
And determining if the syntax is valid and
then implementing that syntax in
a way the computer can understand.
So when you're thinking about your code,
think of it more like this.
You have your code that you've written and
there's a program that
is going to convert what you've written
into a real set of computer instructions.
Something the hardware can
physically understand.
So if you have a function with
the variable, that function and
variable will be represented in memory.
But it's being translated from what you're
writing what is more human readable
to what the computer can understand.
There's a compiler or an interpreter
between those two things and
part of that is a syntax parser.
So it's going through character by
character like F-U-N-C-T-I-O-N.
And it says oh, that's function so
there should be a space after this.
And then the next thing I
see up until the parenthesis
will be the name of the function,
etc, etc.
And that gets translated by
the systems that someone else wrote.
But that also means that in that
translation process, if they so choose,
the programmers that wrote the compiler
can choose to do extra stuff.
Your code is not what's actually
being given to the computer but
the translation of it.
And so along the way the engine
that is interpreting your code
can decide to do other things.
Those programmers, those guys and girls
could have chosen to do something else.
And in fact,
that's going to come up as an important
element of understanding JavaScript.
So, that's syntax parsers and
thinking about the programs
that are actually running every
time you run your JavaScript code.
That intermediate program
that's creating your code and
we're going to see this come up later on.
All right, time for the second one.
So, big word alert.
What's the next big word
we're going to cover?
Lexical environment, that's a big term.
Where something sits physically
in the code you write,
the word lexical means having
to do with words or grammar.
So we're talking about the code you're
writing, it's syntax, it's vocabulary.
Now, lexical environment exists
in programming languages in which
where you write something is important.
So that sounds kinda funny,
but actually not every
programming language is that way.
But remember we said,
you might have some code,
let's say a function,
with a variable inside of it.
The variable sits lexically
inside the function,
that is physically the code that
you're writing, that's where it sits.
But remember,
we said that your code is not what's
actually given directly to the computer.
But it's translated into something
the computer can understand.
But in programming languages where
the lexical environment is important,
that means that where you see
things written gives you an idea
of where it will actually sit
in the computer's memory.
And how it will interact
with other variables and
functions and elements of the program.
And that's because the program, the
compiler that's converting your code to
those instructions cares
about where you put things.
It makes decisions that syntax parser
going through everything makes decisions.
So, when we talk about the lexical
environment of something in the code we're
talking about where it's written and
what surrounds it, got that?
All right, let's move on to the third one.
Our last big word alert.
What is it?
Execution context.
A wrapper to help manage
the code that is running.
There are lots of lexical environments,
areas of the code that you
are looking at physically.
But which one is currently
actually running?
Is managed via what's
called execution contexts.
And an execution context contains
your code, the running code.
It's running your code, but
it also can contain things beyond
what you've written in your code.
Cuz remember again,
your code is being translated,
being processed by a whole other feature.
A whole other set of programs
that someone else wrote.
And so, it's executing your code and
it can do other things as well and
that's what's happening inside JavaScript,
we'll see that very shortly.
So, lexical environments,
we're talking execution context,
we're talking about syntax parsers.
Just remember, it's important.
We're going to hear these terms,
understand them, throughout the course.
And it will give us a basis to
understand what's happening
under the hood in JavaScript.
Alright, let's move on.